fix(v/25.2): align playbook with streaming component (finish #1703 rename) (#1768)
redpanda-data/documentation: versioned_docs/version-23.2/upgrade/deprecated/cluster-resource.mdx

---
title: Deprecated Cluster and Console Custom Resources
linkRoot: ../../../../
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Deprecated Cluster and Console Custom Resources"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Starting from Redpanda version 23.2, the Cluster and Console custom resources are deprecated and replaced by the new Redpanda custom resource."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/reference/deprecated/cluster-resource/" />
</head>

Starting from Redpanda version 23.2, the Cluster and Console custom resources are deprecated and replaced by the new Redpanda custom resource.

The Cluster custom resource was used to configure and deploy Redpanda clusters, while the Console custom resource was used to configure and deploy Redpanda Console.

## What's changed

> The new Redpanda custom resource is used to deploy both Redpanda and Redpanda Console. The latest Redpanda Operator passes configurations defined in Redpanda custom resources to Helm, which then deploys the Redpanda cluster using the Redpanda Helm chart.

Author: ```suggestion
The Redpanda custom resource in this version is used to deploy both Redpanda and Redpanda Console. The latest Redpanda Operator passes configurations defined in Redpanda custom resources to Helm, which then deploys the Redpanda cluster using the Redpanda Helm chart.
```

The deprecated Redpanda Operator could be deployed in a different namespace to the Cluster or Console resources. However, the new Redpanda Operator must be deployed in the same namespace as the Redpanda resource.

## Action required

> To ensure compatibility with future versions of Redpanda and to benefit from new features, enhancements, and security updates, you should migrate from the deprecated Cluster and Console custom resources to the new Redpanda custom resource. The migration process involves deploying at least version 23.2 of the Redpanda Operator.

Author: ```suggestion
To ensure compatibility with future versions of Redpanda and to benefit from new features, enhancements, and security updates, you should migrate from the deprecated Cluster and Console custom resources to the latest Redpanda custom resource. The migration process involves deploying at least version 23.2 of the Redpanda Operator.
```
